---
layout: default
title: Session 2- General Purpose IO, Interrupts, PWM and Servos
date: September 4, 2013
---

##Session 2 - General Purpose IO, Interrupts, PWM and Servos

Our second class will jump into the use of input/output ports then move on to driving motors, fading LEDs and playing back sounds. We'll learn about how to use the Raspberry Pi to control actuators or light up LEDs. We'll also discover how to read digital inputs like switches and sensors. Finally, we'll move on to an explanation of Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) and how to use it on the Raspberry Pi. 

#### Checking RPI-GPIO Library version
{% highlight bash %}
python -c "import RPi.GPIO; print RPi.GPIO.VERSION"
{% endhighlight %}
You should see the value "0.5.4" printed out. If the version is lower than 0.5.3a, please see the FAQ below for instructions for upgrading to a newer version.

#### Getting course source code (Cloning git repository)
To retrieve a personal copy of the source code for the class, you may use either the Adafruit WebIDE or the git command line client. You are welcome to fork, modify, improve and contribute your changes back. Help make the class better for everyone. <br/>
* _Adafruit WebIDE_: Click the "Clone Repository" button and enter the repository url: `https://github.com/raspberrypi-aa/raspberrypi-aa`
* _Command Line_: Run `git clone https://github.com/raspberrypi-aa/raspberrypi-aa`


##Class Resources
* [Bash Control of GPIO](/session2/bash.html)
* [LED Blink and Stopwatch](/session2/project1-beginner.html)
* [Polled and Interrupt Driven Input](/session2/input.html)
* [Reaction Timer](/session2/project2-beginner.html)
* [PWM And Servo Control](/session2/pwm-servo.html)

##Projects
* [Simon Says](session2/project1-intermediate.html)
* Frequency Counter - Under Construction

<br/>

## FAQs
*  To use the interrupt features of the RPi-GPIO library, we need to upgrade to the latest version. Run these commands on your Raspberry Pi:
{% highlight bash %}
  wget http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/raspberry-gpio-python/raspbian-wheezy/python-rpi.gpio_0.5.5-1_armhf.deb
  sudo apt-get install python-pip
  sudo pip uninstall RPi.GPIO
  sudo dpkg -i python-rpi.gpio_0.5.5-1_armhf.deb
{% endhighlight %}


## References
* [Breadboard Connections](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/1733921/Raspberry%20Pi/Breadboard%20Connections.jpg)
* [raspberry-gpio-python Documentation](http://sourceforge.net/p/raspberry-gpio-python/wiki/Home/)
